---
layout: post
title: Problems faced by people having high IQ .
---


IQ is generally presented as a purely positive thing, i.e., more is always good, nothing is wrong in being highly intelligent. 

But having high Iq have it's cons and pros also . 

Note-: This article is only for people having high IQ, average IQ people will feel like a pointless rant. 

let's talk about pros-:  better analytical ability, more academic success, more financial and career success, more business success etc. Now  the list of pros is long and it's a myth that intelligence can have no consand becouse of this attitude, the problems created by a high IQ often go misdiagnosed.

From a statistical perspective, we’re freaks. This is neither good nor bad, it just means that we’re merely different, If you have an IQ of 120, you’re in the top 9% of the population, intelligence wise. At 125, you’re in the top 4.8%, At 130, in the top 2.7%, At 135, top 1%. Once you see how rare your level of intelligence is, you’ll understand that the real problem lies in the economies of scale: “The world is not meant for you.”

Just like all qualities, a high intellectual ability triggers people’s envy and insecurity. Often, this leads to negative interactions with people for no fault of your own:
   1. People try to “one-up” you to feel secure in their self-worth (in school, this leads to bullying).
   2. Your boss undermines your work because he feels threatened in his position by your intelligence. 
   
The vast majority of those reading this post live in a democracy, and in a democracy, you often have the masses exploiting the “top 5%”. Most of the tax revenue is contributed by the top 5% of the population – business owners, entrepreneurs, risk-takers, people in well-paid careers, etc. – almost all of them are high IQ people.
And a lot of the money is spent on stupid people:
 1. Paying for the scholarships and grants to idiots studying vegan coffee gender studies and PhDs in jungle style belly dancing.
 2. Welfare for people who were so bad with their finances that they cannot afford to survive in their old age on their own money even after having a 40-year long career.
 3. Paying for people who keep having children they cannot afford to raise by themselves.
 And you’d think that you’d be respected for your contribution – that you sacrificed some of the wealth generated by the application of your limited time on the planet to shield them from the consequences of their mistakes, but it turns out that much of the average population hates you for it.
 
 Further, in our education system, everyone progresses at the same rate, regardless of ability – the smart kid who understands everything and the dumb kid who doesn’t end up progressing classes at the same rate. In other words, smart students are bored. Many of them do not develop the discipline to work hard in school because everything comes so quickly to them. Many intelligent kids think they are stupid because they keep dozing off in class.
 A lot of smart students could have saved many years of their youth if they were allowed to progress faster than the standard system. This wastage of time is just another price smart people pay by living in a world designed for average people.
 
 Intelligent people are generally good at what they do. But Intelligent people are not good at "soft skills" or "people skills". Soft skills come naturally to average IQ people because they’re around people of the same intelligence level they are – they can relate to each other. Intelligent people often cannot relate to the need for being indirect and fluffy when it comes at the cost of efficiency and effectiveness.
 
 Intelligent people often do not waste time trying to protect other people’s emotions and feelings; they get straight to the point – they are seen as blunt and insensitive. Intelligent people’s solutions solve problems, but they often step on people’s precious little toes. They are far more likely to say what they really think rather than what the other person wants to hear. This causes much friction in their workplaces, and they’re told they need to work on their “people skills”. In fact, many intelligent people do not even know what “soft skills” exactly are.They know it has something to do with presentation and people management, and that they need to develop them, but they don’t “understand” them and wonder what they’re doing wrong. 
 
 conclusion: If you’re a high IQ person, you’ll always have “fitting in” issues wherever you are – be it your school, your workplace, and even with society in general. The solution to this is to reduce reliance on other people as much as possible – in other words, entrepreneurship.
 
 Jai Ho !
 
 









 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
